set current map
event tiles?
portal tiles?

UDLR portal in and out transitions
	possibly sprites for portals - doors etc. not caves etc.
	maybe just walk animation for player - once portal is open.

// directional passing - logical way could be to check in and out each time - only if truthy

spriteAnimations

tap to turn, hold to walk - means sending new events.

interact button(s) - to start NPC chat etc.
	buttons could change label to 'talk' or 'shop' when applicable?

NPCs... static and roaming? roaming could be hard, will need to set boundaries, ensure that the NPC can't walk over player and viceversa

ambient animated tiles

NPC / Situational sprites

Alternative control views
	Store,
	Options (ABC maybe?)
	Inventory? actual inventory will be on screen, but interaction could be different

Local storage for:
	Position
	Progress
	Inventory
	Etc.

// Pause ticker
	events for pause?

free up keys when needed

on map init, need to plot the environment & initialise any entities - use an array of ents, each with a location and list of behaviours - compose these behaviours - composing behaviours can be applied elsewhere too, could be the key.
	behaviours might be... wanderer, trader, follower etc. each behaviour should come with a corresponding param object, wanderer for instance might have an array of tiles he can wander to, trader - the items he stocks and the prices. - all in data.



tile object? extension of an entity? give that behaviours

map stuff
	use x & y - so much easier to plot out... also 1-index them, a 20 wide map should have tiles 1-20.

	each map has:
		tilemap, tiletypes,
		entitymap, entitytypes,
		eventmap? bundle this in with tilemap?
		enviroment on one canvas, entities on another - maybe?

some sort of lazy data repository for maps, npcs etc?
	move to next map should look in this repo first before requesting from the server

split player view in to player enitity and player canvas - could have player on a 'sprites layer' with the other sprites (NPCs etc.)

Tiles are ents? they own properties like 'isOccupied' when a sprite is walking to or from etc.